---
layout: post
title:  "The Leak"
date:   2017-11-17 06:00:00 -0500
categories: Biodiversity
---


**Dakota pipeline leak**

A total of 210,000 gallons or 5,000 barrels of oil [leaked](http://www.cnn.com/2017/11/16/us/keystone-pipeline-leak/index.html) on November 16 from the Keystone Pipeline in South Dakota. The pipeline operator, TransCanada said the cause of the leak is under investigation and the pipeline, which runs from Alberta, Canada through Oklahoma to Illinois in the United States, has been temporarily closed. The leak occurred in the town of Amherst. It is not yet known if the the leak contaminated waterways and wildlife.

*Why does this matter?*

Oil leaks are never pretty and while this was a relatively small incident, it still puts nearby towns in South and North Dakota at risk of contamination. The Keystone pipeline is different from TransCanada's more controversial Keystone XL pipeline but the leak makes TransCanada even more unpopular in the US. Keystone XL is being opposed because it infringes on the rights of Native Americans. The leak simply adds fuel to the fire.

* * *

***ISN'T IT IRONIC...***

**Oil producer plans to divest from oil companies**

Norway, Europe's biggest oil producer, is thinking of [divesting](https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/16/business/energy-environment/norway-fund-oil.html?hpw&rref=business&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&module=well-region&region=bottom-well&WT.nav=bottom-well&_r=0) from oil and gas companies. The Norwegian central bank recommended that the Norwegian sovereign wealth fund, one of the world's largest pension funds in terms of assets, divest from the oil industry as part of its campaign to control climate change. This follows the fund's divestment of mining firms and coal-based utilities, which commenced in 2015.

*What does this mean?*

With $1 trillion in assets, the Norwegian sovereign wealth fund is one of the world's largest institutional investors and its investment decision can move markets and thus, the value of our investments. Ironically, this fund was formed from Norway's oil revenues, making its divestment plan even more significant. The plan reflects both an investment approach as well as the country's values. Like our pension funds, the Norwegian sovereign wealth fund holds investments for years. Its plan to divest from oil and gas firms reflects its lack of confidence in the industry's ability to remain profitable in the future due to escalating risks such as climate change. Many investors are starting to believe that oil and gas firms will, in the long run, lose money from [stranded assets](https://www.greenbiz.com/blog/2014/03/24/exxon-stranded-assets-and-new-math).

Norway is also one of the strongest proponents of mitigating climate change and relative to other developed countries, has aggressively committed to becoming [carbon neutral](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2016/jun/15/norway-pledges-to-become-climate-neutral-by-2030) by 2030. Whether it achieves this goal remains to be seen. But from this point of view, its decision to divest from mining firms and coal-based utilities in 2015, and now its plan to divest from oil and gas firms align with its national values as these industries are associated with high carbon emissions.

* * *

***FOOD FOR THOUGHT...***

**Can carbon increase food supply?**

Researchers are investigating whether [carbon farming](https://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/taking-climate-friendly-farming-to-scale_us_5a065850e4b0ee8ec369418d?utm_hp_ref=sustainability) is a viable solution to food insecurity while mitigating climate change. Carbon farming practices include using fertilizer, leaving crop residue instead of tilling, and planting cover crop. This restores soil health by adding nutrients and increasing water retention. Moreover, the process of photosynthesis moves carbon from the atmosphere to the soil, thereby increasing the rate of carbon removed from the air. As a bonus, farmers benefit from getting carbon credits to offset their emissions.

*Why does it matter?*

This is especially promising for people living in areas where access to healthy, nutritious food is limited due to poor farming practices. It can even benefit people where food is still abundant but the quality of soil is starting to decline due to intensive farming practices. If carbon farming succeeds, it can increase soil productivity by up to 50% after four years, improving food quality.

What's not to love, right? Well, it remains to be seen if carbon farming can make a meaningful dent in the amount of carbon in the atmosphere. It would be great if it can, but some research have indicated that carbon storage is not the climate change fix it was previously hoped to be. This is largely because the amount of time for soil to soak up carbon was significantly longer than previously estimated.

In any case, the California state government has funded carbon farming projects out of its Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund, which means that the initiative holds enough promise for California to take a bet on it.
