---
layout: post
title:  "Latte, anyone?"
date:   2017-11-23 09:02:44 -0500
categories: [CSR, Waste]
---

**Its cups runneth over**

Starbucks is facing criticism that it continues to use non-recyclable cups and utensils despite its commitment to use sustainable cups. As You Sow, a socially-responsible investor, has filed a [shareholder resolution](https://www.asyousow.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/Starbucks-SustainablePackaging-Resolution-2018.pdf) for Starbucks to scale its sustainable packaging.  "Most of the 4 billion paper cups it serves every year still end up in landfills because they are not recyclable due to a plastic coating that requires special processing, and lack of infrastructure to recycle cups," the resolution stated. "Just 1.4% of all beverages are served in reusable cups. The company has given
low priority to implementing its 25% commitment and now proposes to increase usage to just
2.8% by 2022, an alarming and unacceptable backtrack from the original goal."

*Why does this matter?*

If you live in a city with a Starbucks cafe, Starbucks plastic cups are as ubiquitous as the brand itself. It is true that Starbucks baristas do not routinely offer reusable cups but automatically assume that coffee being ordered is "to go" (or take out in other countries). As the world's largest cafe chain, Starbucks can have a negative environmental impact through its cups, its stores, and its coffee supply chain. But to Starbucks customers, cups are its top liability.

In 2008, Starbucks pledged that 100% of its cups would be reusable or recyclable, and 25% of beverages would be served in reusable containers by 2015. But the company promptly ran into problems. Recycling centers do not take coffee cups because of the wax coating to make the cups airtight. Even if they are ran through the recycling process, the cups would not break down. This means that Starbucks cups end up in already overcrowded landfills. As you know, waste in landfills produce toxic gases that not only contribute to global warming, but also contaminate water sources and soil.

*Our take*

It's time to rethink that daily morning latte.
