---
layout: post
title:  "Subprime Crisis Redux"
excerpt: "Subprime auto loan delinquencies continue to rise. Should companies issue environmental disaster bonds?"
date:   2017-12-21 19:00:00 -0500
categories: [Environment, Finance]
---

### Subprime auto loan delinquencies rising

[Late payments for auto loans](http://www.businessinsider.com/consumer-debt-surges-and-subprime-auto-delinquencies-rise-2017-11) issued to borrowers with low credit scores have reached Great Recession levels, according to the New York Federal Reserve (The Fed). Of the $1.2 trillion in auto loans outstanding, $282 billion (24%) were granted to borrowers with a subprime credit score (below 620), and late payments, also known as delinquencies, are steadily increasing. [Private equity firms](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-12-21/subprime-auto-defaults-are-soaring-and-pe-firms-have-no-way-out) that had invested in lenders that issue subprime loans are reportedly finding it difficult to cash in on their investments.

#### What are subprime loans again?

These are loans that are issued to borrowers with low credit scores and have no access to traditional lending institutions such as banks. These types of borrowers are offered a loan at much higher interest rates than prime loans to cover for the risk that the lender is taking. Sharp increases in subprime loans have, in the past, been fueled by lax credit due diligence and predatory lending practices. Predatory lending essentially means that lenders hook and bait borrowers to obtain loans even if these loans are unsuitable to the customer. Predatory lending is both unethical and illegal.

#### Why do rising delinquencies matter?

Remember 2007-2008? Subprime mortgage loans crushed the US economy in what we now fondly call the Great Recession. The loans themselves are not the sole problem. What adds insult to injury is financial companies tend to bundle these loans into securities that they sell to other financial institutions like banks and pension funds. So when the market implodes, the securities held by banks and investors drop in value. The Fed estimates that 70% of subprime auto loans are generated by auto finance companies. If delinquencies rise to extreme levels, these companies can go under, and may implicate their investors, such as private equity firms. Because the players of today's financial system are so interlinked, an implosion of one market creates a domino effect that may ultimately affect our jobs and livelihood.

#### Our take

The Fed is raising the alarm bells on subprime auto loans, and when there's smoke, there's usually fire. It's beginning to look a lot like another financial disaster in the making.  

* * *
<br />
**BEFORE YOU GO...**
#### **We've been reading**

A [proposal](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/eap.1461/full) for companies to post environmental bonds that can be used to pay for future disasters like oil or mine leaks. The authors noted that in some of the worst corporate environmental disasters, companies responsible for the disaster even make money because they are not made to pay the full cost of remediating and cleaning up the mess. They proposed that companies issue environmental bonds that are held in [escrow](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/e/escrow.asp) to pay for disasters as well as to incentivize the companies to improve their environmental management. Think of a defendant posting a bond to ensure that s/he shows up in court. If the defendant fails to appear in court, the bond is forfeited. In this case, if a company's operations lead to an environmental disaster, the bond is used to pay for the clean-up. If nothing happens, the company gets its money back at the completion of the project.
