---
layout: post
title:  "Time for a Change"
excerpt: "Time sold itself to Meredith Corporation with investment from the Koch brothers. A Swedish power plant has been using unsold H&M clothes to generate energy."
date:   2017-11-27 20:00:00 -0500
categories: [Ethics, Environment, CSR]
---

### And the Magazine Goes To...

Time Inc. sold itself to Meredith Corporation over the weekend. Time Inc. is the publisher of Time magazine, People magazine and Sports Illustrated, while Meredith Corporation published Better Homes and Gardens, AllRecipes, and Family Circle. Meredith purchased Time in a $3 billion deal of which $650 million was from the private equity of the Koch brothers.

#### Why does this matter?

Because of the Koch brothers. The Kansas-based Koch family made its fortune in part from the oil business. Its privately-held holding company has investments in oil and gas companies, chemicals, agriculture, and finance, among others.

Ultra-wealthy folks buying up media firms is not a strange phenomenon (think Jeff Bezos buying the Washington Post) and normally, we wouldn't consider such a purchase a sustainability issue. Unless it has potential implications on sustainability topics. Like this acquisition.

The Koch brothers and their family are a secretive bunch, but they are known for their anti-climate action activities, which are  [well-documented](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/dark-money-funds-climate-change-denial-effort/). Greenpeace has, in fact, done in-depth  [research](http://www.greenpeace.org/usa/global-warming/climate-deniers/koch-industries/) into the family's financial contributions to movements that debunk climate change.  The Meredith Corporation says the Koch brothers will not have a seat in the board and will not influence the operations of Time magazine.

#### Our take

We doubt that the Koch family threw in $650 million to be a fly in the wall. And we don't think the family considers Time Inc. a money-making venture either, what with magazine subscriptions steadily going down. We think at the very least, this acquisition gives the family its own tool to sway public opinion. While Time is no longer the prestigious magazine that it once was, it remains a highly-recognizable media brand with a circulation of 2 million for its 44 issues. The magazine continues to have the potential to shape public opinion if there is intent by the owners to do so.


* * *
<br />
### H&M clothes have dual use

A Swedish power plant has been using unsold H&M clothes to wean away from coal. The power plant, operated by Malarenergi AB uses wood, trash and unsold H&M clothes to generate electricity. Bloomberg [reported](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2017-11-24/burning-h-m-rags-is-new-black-as-swedish-plant-ditches-coal) that the plant burned approximately 15 tons of discarded clothes from H&M so far in 2017, compared with about 400,000 tons of trash.

#### What's cool about this is...

It will help the company meet its target of becoming coal-free by 2020. The plant plans to run completely on recycled and renewable fuels in the future. It's also cool that unsold clothes are not ending up in landfills and are, instead, getting reused.

#### But something is nagging us...

H&M is probably making way too many cheap, dispensable clothes that it can dispose of 15 tons of clothing in one location in one year alone. But cheap clothing carries a lot of social baggage. H&M still can't shake [allegations](https://broadly.vice.com/en_us/article/bmw993/women-making-hm-clothes-factory-fired-pregnant) of using cheap labor in Asia to produce its clothes. So the fact that clothes made by possibly cheap labor under possibly poor working conditions are ending up as trash is disturbing.
