---
layout: post
title: "HQ2"
excerpt: "Amazon chooses New York, DC suburb for second headquarters. And an interview on sustainable fashion."
categories: [CSR]
---

### Welcome, income inequality

Amazon announced this week that it has chosen two locations for its second headquarters: Long Island City in Queens, New York, and Crystal City in Arlington County, Virginia. The online retail giant said it will employ 50,000 for its second headquarters, evenly split between New York and Northern Virginia.

#### Who's excited?

New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, New York City Mayor Bill Blasio and Virginia's officials are. They offered <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/13/business/economy/amazon-hq2-va-long-island-city-incentives.html?action=click&module=inline&pgtype=Article" target="_blank">$2 billion in tax incentives</a> and bested more than 20 other cities for HQ2. They believe that Amazon will revitalize the areas and help urban development. Amazon intends to spend $5 billion for the two facilities, in addition to creating jobs.

#### Who's not?

Some New Yorkers <a href="https://www.nbcnews.com/business/business-news/report-amazon-chooses-new-york-city-northern-virginia-new-headquarters-n935511" target="_blank">are unhappy</a>. Because, gentrification. Many fear that Amazon's entry will further strain the city's public infrastructure (think subway system and sewage), raise housing prices and further push out lower-income residents further away from the city, and further widen the income gap.  

#### Why does this matter?

Amazon will face intense scrutiny particularly in New York. Its social footprint will be examined like never before. San Francisco's wealth disparity is an open secret and nobody wants that to happen in the Big Apple. Amazon and perhaps all other tech giants that have set up shop in New York are going to have to demonstrate that doing business in the city also means caring for the public good.

* * *
<br />

**WHAT WE'RE WATCHING**

#### **How to make fashion sustainable**

Bloomberg Television's interview with Francois Souchet, project manager at the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, on what the fashion industry can do to make fashion more sustainable. Watch it <a href="https://www.bloomberg.com/news/videos/2018-11-08/making-fashion-more-sustainable-video?cmpid=BBD111418_GBIZ&utm_medium=email&utm_source=newsletter&utm_term=181114&utm_campaign=goodbiz" target="_blank">here</a>.
