---
layout: post
title: "Justin's Folly?"
excerpt: "Canadian government to buy controversial pipeline from American company Kinder Morgan. We have a number of cringe-inducing quotes of the day."
categories: [Environment, Diversity]
---

### Ottawa steps in to buy controversial pipeline

The Canadian government announced this week that it will <a href="https://www.cnbc.com/2018/05/29/canadian-government-to-buy-kinder-morgans-trans-mountain-pipeline.html" target="_blank">buy a pipeline</a> that will transport oil from Canada's Alberta province to British Columbia despite controversy over the environmental impact of the pipeline and the heavy oil that it will transport. Ottawa will buy the Trans Mountain pipeline from Kinder Morgan for $3.5 billion to ensure that its expansion will proceed. The expansion of the pipeline project will facilitate the transport of oil from Alberto to additional areas in British Columbia.

#### What's the background?

The Trans Mountain pipeline has been in operation since the 1950s following the discovery of significant deposits of oil in Alberta in the 1940s. The pipeline transports crude and refined oil from Alberta to parts of British Columbia. In 2013, Kinder Morgan applied for the construction of a parallel pipeline to increase the project's capacity from 300,000 barrels a day to approximately 800,000. The expansion has been supported by the Canadian federal government but vigorously opposed by provincial governments and local communities, including the First Nations.

#### Suspension

On April 8, 2018, Kinder Morgan announced that it was <a href="https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/kinder-morgan-canada-limited-suspends-non-essential-spending-on-trans-mountain-expansion-project-300626072.html" target="_blank">suspending non-essential spending</a> on the expansion project and gave itself until May 31 to decide whether it would go ahead with the project. Ottawa stepped in to buy the pipeline just in time for the deadline.

#### Why does this matter?

Public sentiment over fossil fuels has changed since Kinder Morgan started to plan the expansion around 2004. Climate change has become more of thing than it was 15 years ago. Ottawa's decision undermines the progressive  policies of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and puts his government at odds with various special interest groups. Bring out the popcorn, we're in for some interesting times.

* * *
<br />

**BEFORE YOU GO**

#### **Quotes of the day: Cringe-worthy**

<i>I don’t think women fit comfortably into the board environment.</i>

<i>We have one woman already on the board, so we are done — it is someone else’s turn.</i>

<i>All the ‘good’ women have already been snapped up. </i>

<i>Most women don’t want the hassle or pressure of sitting on a board.</i>

<i>There aren’t that many women with the right credentials and depth of experience to sit on the board - the issues covered are extremely complex.</i>

~ Quotes compiled by a British Government report on board diversity in FTSE 350 companies. <a href="https://www.gov.uk/government/news/revealed-the-worst-explanations-for-not-appointing-women-to-ftse-company-boards" target="_blank">Read it to believe it</a>.
