---
layout: post
title: "Healing"
excerpt: "A section of the ozone layer is (cross your fingers) healing. ICYMI: A long dry season in Germany."
categories: [Environment]
---

### New report says the ozone layer above the northern hemisphere is recovering from aerosol damage

The ozone layer above the northern hemisphere is finally showing strong evidence of recovery from the damage caused by aerosols. And if the recovery is sustained, this section of the ozone layer could heal completely by 2030, according to a <a href="https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2018/nov/05/ozone-layer-healing-after-aerosols-un-northern-hemisphere" target="_blank">new report</a> released by the United Nations (UN) on November 5.

#### Back up a bit

Damage to the ozone layer was caused by the use of man-made chemicals called chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs). CFCs were commonly found in aerosols (think hairsprays), which were widely used in the 1970s and 1980s (the big hair era). In 1987, countries came together to sign the Montreal Protocol, requiring signatories to reduce and then eliminate CFCs and other harmful chemicals.

#### So finally some good news

The new UN report said that the recovery from the holes and thinning caused by aerosol chemicals has progressed at a rate of between 1% and 3% a decade since 2000. The recovery has been sustained over the last 18 years, giving scientists hope that this section of the ozone layer would completely heal by the 2030s.

#### But it's not the entire ozone layer is it?

No. The ozone layer over the southern hemisphere and the polar regions is taking longer to heal. It may take another 50 or 60 years for this area to recover.

#### And there's one more thing

In May, scientists found that a <a href="https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2018/05/180516162520.htm" target="_blank">25% increase</a> in production in trichlorofluoromethane, known as CFC-11, since 2012, despite an international treaty to ban its production. The increase in CFC-related emissions was unexpected and is likely to have been caused by new, unreported production. The good news, however, is CFC-11 concentration in the atmosphere is still decreasing, although at a slower pace than expected.

#### Why is this important?

The healing of the ozone layer helps reduce risks from global warming because the chemicals that led to holes and thinning also contributed to warming temperatures. Therefore, the reduction of these chemicals in the atmosphere helps the climate. Moreover, the recovered ozone layer helps protect the earth against harmful ultraviolet rays from the sun and may just reduce the risk of skin cancer and eye damage.

* * *
<br />

**ICYMI**

#### **Germany's Rhine river experiencing lowest water level**

One of Europe's main shipping routes is experiencing its lowest water level in years, disrupting the shipment of goods and affecting marine life. Read more about Rhine river <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2018/11/04/world/europe/rhine-drought-water-level.html" target="_blank">here</a>.
