---
layout: post
title: "Dropped like a Hot Potato"
excerpt: "Swedish asset manager unlikes Facebook. Our quote of the day is from investors demanding reduced plastic use."
categories: [CSR, Privacy, Environment]
---

### Swedish investor divests from Facebook

Nordea Bank AB's asset management arm, with $370 billion in assets under management, has <a href="https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-06-21/facebook-should-be-dumped-by-all-sustainable-funds-nordea-says" target="_blank">divested from Facebook</a>, citing the social media company's "unresponsive" approach to the Cambridge Analytica scandal. Nordea also said sustainable funds should also drop Facebook from their portfolios as investors face financial risks from the company's approach.

#### Freeze

In March, Nordea's head of sustainable funds said its funds <a href="https://www.reuters.com/article/us-nordea-sustainability-facebook/nordea-says-its-sustainable-funds-wont-buy-more-facebook-stock-idUSKBN1GX140" target="_blank">are no longer buying new Facebook shares</a>. “Given the high-level revelations and the turmoil surrounding the company with a strong public backlash, coupled with the overhanging threat of increasing regulation of the platforms and the EU GDPR on the horizon, we choose to quarantine Facebook,” Sasja Beslik, Head of Group Sustainable Finance, said.

#### What do investors want?

Investors want Facebook to be more transparency and to manage its privacy risks better. They are also demanding better governance of the company overall, even questioning CEO Mark Zuckerberg's voting rights at one point. Following its annual shareholders' meeting in May, Facebook revamped its audit committee, mandating it to  monitor Facebook's social impact, privacy safeguards, and cybersecurity risk.

#### Why does this matter?

Nordea's decision to divest indicates that some investors remain unconvinced about Facebook's ability to manage the pressing issues of the day. With the markets once again in love with Facebook, the divestment by one shareholder may not impact the company financially but it still hurts Facebook's reputation.

* * *
<br />

**BEFORE YOU GO**

#### **Quote of the day: Environmentally damaging**

<i>Without fundamental redesign and innovation, about 30 percent of plastic packaging will never be reused or recycled. These materials can persist in the environment, partially degraded, for hundreds of years, which, as well as causing damage to marine life, could also have a material impact by exposing companies to reputational damage.</i> ~ Letter signed by 25 investors managing a total of $1 trillion in assets to the largest consumer goods companies. The investors are <a href="https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-06-21/investors-demand-nestle-pepsi-and-others-cut-plastic-packaging" target="_blank">demanding</a> that companies like Nestle, Pepsico, Procter & Gamble and Unilever reduce their plastic packaging. Looks like they are listening.  
