---
layout: post
title: "Blocked"
excerpt: "US Judge blocks construction of controversial pipeline. ICYMI: Whale jails."
categories: [Environment]
---

### Judge says more environmental analysis needed for Keystone pipeline

A US District judge <a href="https://www.greatfallstribune.com/story/news/2018/11/08/judge-blocks-construction-keystone-xl-pipeline-montana-fort-peck-climate-chagne/1938114002/" target="_blank">blocked</a> on November 8 the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline that would transport shale gas from Canada to parts of the US.

#### Back up a bit

<a href="http://www.keystone-xl.com/" target="_blank">Keystone XL</a> is a proposed 1,179-mile pipeline that will transport heavy crude extracted from oil sands in Canada’s Alberta province all the way to the US midwest. It is projected to carry 830,000 barrels of oil per day and supporters believe that it will reduce America’s oil dependency on the Middle East.

#### What was the judge's decision?

US District Judge Brian Morris blocked the construction of the $8 billion pipeline, saying that the pipeline needed further environmental analysis. He noted that the pipeline, operated by TransCanada, was denied a permit in 2015 under the Obama administration on environmental grounds but was given the go-ahead by the Trump administration two years later. He said the Trump government's reversal of the 2015 order fell short of a "reasoned explanation".

#### Now what?

Judge Morris wants the government to conduct further analysis on:

<ul>
<li> The effects of the current oil prices on the viability of the pipeline.</li>
<li>The cumulative effects of greenhouse gas emissions.</li>
<li>A survey of potential Native American resources.</li>
<li>Potential oil spills and recommended mitigation measures.</li>
</ul>

#### What are people saying?

President Trump wasn't happy and said the decision was politically-motivated. But environmental and human rights groups said it was a landmark decision.

#### Why does this matter?

The Keystone XL pipeline has been the subject of intense debate and protests because of its potential environmental impacts and potential infringement of Native American lands and culture. Some also oppose the project because of their fundamental opposition to oil sands, which produce more greenhouse gas emissions than standard crude oil.

* * *
<br />

**ICYMI**

#### **Whales are trapped in "whale jails"**

An investigation has found that up to 90 belugas and orcas are trapped in "whale jails" in Russia's Pacific east coast. It is believed that the whales are being sold to Chinese aquariums. Read more <a href="https://www.ecowatch.com/beluga-orcas-russia-trapped-jail-2618694294.html" target="_blank">here</a>.
