---
layout: post
title: "Collapse"
excerpt: "South Korean-funded dam in Laos collapses."
categories: [Environment, Human Rights]
---

### Dam collapse kills at least 26 and displaces thousands

A hydropower dam built by a consortium of South Korean, Thai and Laotian firms collapsed on July 23, killing at least 26 people and affecting more than 11,000 residents in southern Laos. More than 130 people are still missing and thousands have been evacuated from their homes. The dam breach released more than 17 billion cubic meters of water, inundating at least eight villages.

#### What's with the dam?
The Xepian Xe Nam Noy Dam in Attapeu province was under construction by SK Engineering & Construction Co., when the breach occurred. The dam, which cost $1 billion, was a joint venture project between SK Engineering, Thailand’s Ratchaburi Electricity Generating Holding Pcl, Korea Western Power Co. and the Lao government. Scheduled to open next year, the plant was supposed to generate 1,879 gigawatt-hours of electricity of which 90% was supposed to be exported to neighboring Thailand. The dam sits near the Mekong River, one of the major bodies of the water that runs through Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, China and Myanmar.


#### What caused the collapse?

The collapse occurred without warning and inundated entire villages with 17 billion cubic meters of water. Officials of the South Korean companies attributed the collapse to heavy rains. But other experts believe that the breach was <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/26/world/asia/laos-dam-collapse.html" target="_blank">caused by either faulty construction or holding too much water</a>. Company engineers apparently noticed issues with the dam days prior to the collapse. The day before the collapse, engineers saw that part of the top of the dam was missing. However, none of the engineers warned the local government until it was too late.

#### Why does this matter?

Because more than 100 people are still missing and thousands of residents have lost their homes and livelihood. Attapeu is a remote, agricultural and fishing province, and the flooding has damaged farmland and fisheries. As a hydropower expert noted, this is “a slow-moving humanitarian and ecological disaster”. The incident also revived concerns about the safety of hydropower dams. Environmental groups that had been concerned about safety standards in Laos are now saying, "we told you so". It's a high price to pay for a plant that was going to provide more electricity to the neighbro.
