---
layout: post
title:  "Erosion"
excerpt: "Beach erosion has made sand a hot commodity."
date:   2018-02-15 12:00:00 -0500
categories: [Environment]
---

### Sand now a hot commodity because of storms

Beach erosion by storms has <a href="https://www.reuters.com/article/us-florida-storm-beaches/gone-with-the-wind-storms-deepen-floridas-beach-sand-crunch-idUSKCN1G00W4" target="_blank">triggered shortages of beach sand</a>, with Florida spending the most for beach sand replacement over the last 70 years. Over the last seven decades, Florida, which has 1,350 miles (2,173 kilometers) of coastline, the longest in the continental US, has spent approximately $1.34 billion for beach nourishment. The replenishment is needed to protect beachfront homes and businesses, and prop the state's significant tourism industry. Reuters reported that more frequent storms have forced coastal states to fight over shrinking sand supply, and many states are also struggling with tighter public funds.

#### Why does this matter?

Because, summer. We all love the beach and look forward to our annual pilgrimage to the coast. And yet, the sand that we love to bury our toes in is in short supply, and this raises concerns of the sustainability of beachfront living. The more homes and businesses in the beach, the more sand is needed to replenish beaches eroded by storms. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers estimated that Hurricane Irma that hit Florida in 2016, knocked out four times the amount of sand displaced by Hurricane Matthew the same year. This means the volume of sand needed to replenish the beach is also roughly four times more than usual.

#### And why else?

The shrinking sand supply has also pitted neighbors against each other. Siesta Key and Lido Key, both in Florida, are locked in a legal dispute over 1.8 million tons of sand. Some counties have also hired "sand lobbyists" to represent them in local legislatures. Nothing wrong with lobbyists but adding politics to the mix makes things even more complicated.

#### Our take

The next time you hit the beach, laying on the sand may have been paid for via Mastercard, but preserving the beach is priceless.

* * *
<br />

**BEFORE YOU GO...**

#### **Quote of the day: "There's not much civility in the marketplace."**

“Unfortunately, ... we’ve had some incidents on travel dating back to when I first started serving in the March-April timeframe. We live in a very toxic environment politically, particularly around issues of the environment. We’ve reached the point where there’s not much civility in the marketplace and it’s created, you know, it’s created some issues and the (security) detail, the level of protection is determined by the level of threat.” ~ Scott Pruitt, head of the Environmental Protection Agency, on his first-class air travel. <a href="http://www.unionleader.com/politics/epas-scott-pruitt-flies-1st-class-to-talk-superfund-in-nh-20180213" target="_blank">Read it to believe it</a>. 
