---
layout: post
title: "Halt"
excerpt: "Tariffs on solar panels halt new renewable energy projects. Our quote of the day is from Google."
categories: [Environment]
---

### US tariffs pull the plug on renewable energy projects

Tariffs imposed on solar panels have halted up to $2.5 billion worth of renewable energy projects, according to a <a href="https://www.reuters.com/article/us-renewables-investment/u-s-moves-up-to-second-most-attractive-renewables-market-after-china-report-idUSKBN1I2352" target="_blank">report by Reuters</a>. Reuters reported that the tariffs have also endangered thousands of new job opportunities that would have been created from these new investments. The Trump government imposed a 30% tariff on solar panels over the next four years, decreasing by 5% per year.

#### Aren't the tariffs supposed to be good for America?

Tariffs were indeed imposed to protect the local industries. In fact, new spending plans by firms building or expanding solar panels amounted to $1 billion. But the solar power industry is not just about manufacturers of solar panels, its much more than that. Companies that import solar panels will be disadvantaged, while the cost of installing solar power is likely to go up because cheaper imports have made it possible to lower installation costs.

#### Why does this matter?

The use of renewable energy is a key ingredient to lower carbon emissions and the US had been quietly going up the ranks as one of the most attractive investment areas for renewable energy. The Reuters report indicates that the tariffs are a real dampener to the country's ability to increase solar power use.

* * *
<br />

**BEFORE YOU GO...**

#### **Quote of the day: No harm**

<i>How AI is developed and used will have a significant impact on society for many years to come. As a leader in AI, we feel a special responsibility to get this right.</i> ~ Sundar Pichai, CEO of Google. The company pledged not to use its powerful artificial intelligence for weapons, illegal surveillance and technologies that cause "overall harm." The commitment was made after thousands of Google employees expressed concern over Google's partnership with the US military. <a href="https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-06-07/google-renounces-ai-for-weapons-but-will-still-sell-to-military" target="_blank">Read it to believe it</a>.  
