---
layout: post
title:  "Lonely Planet"
excerpt: "Tourism is now responsible for 8% of global carbon emissions."
categories: [Environment]
---

### Tourism's contribution to global carbon emissions is increasing

A new report showed that <a href="https://www.ecowatch.com/tourism-global-greenhouse-gas-2566752788.html" target="_blank">tourism accounted for 8% of global carbon emissions</a>. The study, published in Nature Climate Change, said that tourism's carbon footprint increased from 3.9 billion to 4.5 billion tonnes of CO2 equivalent between 2009 and 2013. The rise was reportedly driven by an increase in goods and services as more people go on holidays every year. In calculating tourism's global emissions, the researchers took into account a broad range of factors, such as all forms of tourist travel, consumption of goods and services such as food, lodging and souvenirs, and took data from 160 countries.

#### A rich country problem

The US had the largest carbon footprint, followed by China, Germany and India, according to the study. Domestic emissions had the highest contributed to global emissions in the US and China, as majority of their residents typical take their vacation at home. Residents of Canada, the Netherlands and Denmark, on the other hand, tend to holiday abroad, contributing to international emissions. International travel tends to contribute more to global emissions than domestic travel. The longer the flight, the higher the footprint.

#### The 'net' hosts

Small island countries, meanwhile, shoulder higher carbon footprints from their visitors. Countries such as the Maldives, Mauritius, Cyprus and Seychelles, receive visitors who demand luxurious goods and services. Yes, traveling in style causes more damage to the planet. Ironically, these countries also face the gravest threats from the effects of climate change.

#### Why does this matter?

Global carbon emissions continue to increase, and scientists are already sounding the alarm on the world's ability to mitigate global warming. The explosion of mass tourism may have democratized travel but its impacts on the environment is indisputable and irreversible. Unless people stop traveling. Which they won't. Imagine how much emissions would be generated if people start to holiday in space.
