---
layout: post
title:  "The Ear on Big Ears"
excerpt: "Oil was the key reason for reducing national monument."
date:   2018-03-02 20:00:00 -0500
categories: [Environment]
---

### Trump shrunk Big Ears for oil

Internal documents <a href="https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/4391967-National-Monuments-a-Look-at-the-Debate-From.html#document/" target="_blank">published by the New York Times</a> show that oil drilling was the central reason for the Trump administration's decision to reduce Big Ears National Monument in southern Utah. An aide to Republican Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah requested in March 2017 that the Department of Interior, which manages national parks and monuments, consider shrinking Big Ears to "resolve all known mineral conflicts".

#### Timeline

The Trump government shrank Big Ears a year after former President Obama designated it as a national monument. Obama designated Big Ears as a national monument on December 28, 2016. A few weeks prior, two senators and two members of the House of Representatives wrote to the White House, claiming that the designation "infringes the rights and way of life" of Native American tribes. On December 28, 2016, a Utah State Board of Education issued a press release saying that national monuments capture large tracts of land that could otherwise be used to generate revenues for Utah schools.

#### Our take

No surprise there. Yawn. The Bureau of Land Management opened leases for oil and mineral exploration in the Big Ears area on the same day that Trump shrank the monument. Ironically, Native American tribes, whose rights were supposed to be "infringed" by the designation of the national monument, were the first to protest Trump's decision. The motivation to generate funds for schools may have been noble, but its uncool to try to pull a trick on the government and claim to have the interests of Native American tribes at heart.
