---
layout: post
title: "A Heavy Toll"
excerpt: "Italian construction firm facing intense criticism for bridge collapse. Indonesia's deforestation rate actually declined."
categories: [CSR]
---

### Atlantia faces fines and possible loss of contracts

The Italian government has placed a construction conglomerate under intense scrutiny following the collapse of a bridge in Genoa, which killed at least 39 people. Atlantia, which manages half of Italy's motorways, is facing a fine of <a href="https://www.thelocal.it/20180815/atlantia-italys-motorway-operator-with-global-ambitions-under-scrutiny" target="_blank">approximately €150 million</a> and the cancellation of its concession.

#### How is Atlantia connected to the disaster?

Atlantia, through its prime asset, Autostrade per l'Italia, operates the Morandi bridge, of which a section collapsed on August 14. It is one of the country's largest operators of toll roads and airports, managing 2,855 kilometers of Italian toll highways directly and another 165 kilometers through five subsidiaries with separate concessions.

#### What is the government saying?

Deputy Prime Minister Luigi Di Maio said the traged "could have been avoided" and that it was clear that Autostrade per l'Italia was at fault for not carrying out maintenance. Genoa’s chief prosecutor, Francesco Cozzi, similarly <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/15/world/europe/italy-genoa-bridge-collapse.html" target="_blank">said the incident "was not destiny"</a> and that he will conduct a criminal investigation. Atlantia, however, said it has spent €11.4 billion to improve 923 kilometers of Italian motorways, and was waiting for government approval to build a bypass around Genoa.

#### Why does this matter?

The Morandi bridge collapse was one of the worst infrastructure disasters in Italy in recent years and highlights the responsibility of companies operating vital public infrastructure to keep them well-maintained and safe. Incidents like these take a heavy toll not only on victims and the community, but also on the company and its shareholders. Atlantia's share price dropped by more than 5% following the tragedy, which means that overnight, Atlantia shareholders found themselves on uncertain footing. 

* * *
<br />

**ICYMI**

#### **Indonesia's deforestation rate drops**

A new study showed that the rate of primary forest loss in Indonesia <a href="https://www.ecowatch.com/indonesia-deforestation-2595918463.html" target="_blank">dropped by 60%</a> in 2017. The improvement in Indonesia is in contrast to the decline in forest cover in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Brazil, and Colombia. The study noted that the lower deforestation rate may have been due to the national peat drainage moratorium that took effect in 2016, less dry weather, as well as better enforcement of forest laws, among other factors.
