---
layout: post
title:  "Naughty"
excerpt: "Walmart accused of misconduct in e-commerce business."
categories: [Ethics, CSR]
---

### Walmart cutting corners?

A former executive has accused Walmart of unethical behavior in a race to compete against Amazon in the e-commerce business. Tri Huynh, a former director of business development, accused Walmart of mislabeling of products so it can charge excessive sales commissions, and failing to properly process $7 million worth of customer returns, enabling overstatement of total value of merchandise sold from September 2015 to March 2016. The complaint said the misconduct was not detected by internal controls, allowing the company to overstate revenue.

#### What is Walmart saying?

The company said it "looked into the allegations" when it was brought to management's attention and that the company "found nothing to suggest that the company acted improperly". Walmart said the these allegations were brought up by a disgruntled employee. The response is as expected.

#### Why does this matter?

Because the allegations show the pressure caused by Amazon even on the world's largest retailer. If proven true, the allegations also indicate that the pressure has become serious enough to trigger unethical conduct. Unethical conduct by a company casts doubt on its ability to sustain itself. Certainly Walmart will no go down over excessive sales commissions alone. But over the long-term, unchecked misbehavior could affect the company's ability to sustain itself in e-commerce, a competitive market segment that is defining the future of retail.
