---
layout: post
title: "Evasion"
excerpt: "Swiss bank settles US government investigation on tax evasion. Our quote of the day is from Ryan Zinke."
categories: [Ethics, Environment]
---

### Swiss bank agrees to pay $98 million to end US probe

Swiss lender Zuercher Kantonalbank (ZKB) has agreed to <a href="https://www.reuters.com/article/us-zkb-usa/switzerlands-zkb-to-pay-98-million-to-end-u-s-probe-of-tax-evasion-idUSKBN1KY26W" target="_blank">settle</a> a US government investigation that it helped wealthy Americans avoid paying taxes. The bank agreed to pay $98 million to settle the probe and the US government will no longer pursue charges against ZKB, although it will monitor the bank under a deferred prosecution agreement.

#### Was anyone held accountable?

Two ZKB bankers pled guilty to a single misdemeanor conspiracy charge and face a prison sentence of up to one year. Both admitted that they provided services to American clients and "deliberately avoided learning" that the clients were using their accounts with ZKB to avoid paying US taxes.

#### Why does this matter?

Because tax evasion and avoidance deprive countries of revenues. In good times or in bad, countries need revenues to spend for welfare programs, defense, education and all those things we expect government to do. The US is one of the most aggressive countries in going after tax evaders or avoiders and in the process, goes after the banks that help them. ZKB is one of a long list of Swiss banks that have had to settle a US government probe. Switzerland had been a favorite parking spot for wealth because of its bank secrecy laws.

#### P.S. What to know more about tax evasion?

Read the investigation on the <a href="https://www.icij.org/investigations/panama-papers/" target="_blank">Panama Papers</a>. It's going to read like a crime novel, but better.

* * *
<br />

**BEFORE YOU GO...**

#### **Quote of the day: Blame game**

<i>Every year we watch our forests burn, and every year there is a call for action. Yet, when action comes, and we try to thin forests of dead and dying timber, or we try to sustainably harvest timber from dense and fire-prone areas, we are attacked with frivolous litigation from radical environmentalists who would rather see forests and communities burn than see a logger in the woods.</i> ~ Ryan Zinke, Interior Secretary, in an <a href="https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2018/08/08/active-forest-management-prevent-wildfires-column/913801002/" target="_blank">opinion piece</a> in USA Today. He is saying that to prevent wildfires, America needs to allow more timber logging. Do you agree?
