---
layout: post
title: "Bloody Tuesday"
excerpt: "Protests against Vedanta Resources' copper smelter in India turns violent."
categories: [Environment]
---

### Locals protest Vedanta's copper plant in Tamil Nadu

At least <a href="https://www.reuters.com/article/us-vedanta-smelter-violence/at-least-nine-dead-after-police-fire-on-protesters-seeking-closure-of-indian-copper-smelter-idUSKCN1IN11X?feedType=RSS&feedName=worldNews&rpc=69" target="_blank">11 people were killed</a> in days of protests against a copper smelter operated by mining company Vedanta Resources in Thootukudi in Tamil Nadu state. Protestors and environmentalists allege that Vedanta's copper plant causes pollution and poses a risk to marine life.

#### What went down 

Nine of the 11 fatalities in the demonstrations were killed in violent confrontations between protestors and policement on May 23. Protestors waving black flags forced their way inside a government building and an apartment block for Vedanta employees. Some of them also set vehicles on fire and threw stones at police. These reportedly prompted the police to respond with force.

#### What's with the copper plant?

Vedanta's copper plant is one of India's largest and can produce up to 400,000 tons of copper per year. Operations were suspended nearly two months ago after government findings that it did not comply with environmental standards. The plant will be closed until June 6th.

#### Why does this matter?

This is one of the deadliest protests against a private company in India and in a way demonstrates the conviction of protestors against Vedanta Resources. The London-headquartered Vedanta has faced <a href="http://www.minesandcommunities.org/article.php?a=13602" target="_blank">numerous allegations</a> of failing to meet environmental standards, endangering the health of local residents and disregarding the rights of local communities in areas where it operates. Vedanta has <a href="https://scroll.in/article/808828/human-rights-and-environment-are-our-priority-vedanta-reacts-to-london-lit-fest-controversy" target="_blank">argued</a> that it has invested heavily in improving the environmental performance of its operations. But the most recent protests show people don't believe it.
