---
layout: post
title: "Sued"
excerpt: "New York sues Exxon Mobil over climate change. ICYMI: Super typhoon has made landfall in US territories in the Pacific."
categories: [CSR, Environment]
---

### NY AG says Exxon misled investors about climate change risk

New York Attorney General Barbara D. Underwood <a href="https://ag.ny.gov/press-release/ag-underwood-files-lawsuit-against-exxonmobil-defrauding-investors-regarding-financial" target="_blank">announced</a> today that the state has sued oil major Exxon Mobil for repeatedly misleading investors about business risks associated with climate change.

#### Take me by the hand on this one

New York state filed a complaint alleging that Exxon has understated the risks posed by climate change on the company and its financial value. The company had assured investors that it was accounting for risk factors like increased regulation on greenhouse gas emissions but a state investigation over three years has found that Exxon "did not abide by these representations."

#### Why is the NY AG getting involved?

Because the state pension fund, the New York State Common Retirement Fund, and the New York State Teachers Retirement System hold a combined $1.5 billion worth of shares in Exxon Mobil. Because pension funds hold shares for a long time, they are concerned that climate change may dilute the value of their holdings.

#### Why does this matter?

This lawsuit is not just about the shares of Exxon because at the end of the day, pension funds can sell the stock. This is about holding the oil company accountable and forcing it to act to mitigate climate risk. Oil companies are the highest emitters of carbon and environmental advocates are pushing for increased action by companies themselves to reduce carbon emissions and mitigate climate change. For years, Exxon has been accused of <a href="https://www.greenpeace.org/usa/global-warming/exxon-and-the-oil-industry-knew-about-climate-change/exxons-climate-denial-history-a-timeline/" target="_blank">denying</a> the human causes of climate change, so this lawsuit doesn't come as a surprise. 

* * *
<br />

**ICYMI**

#### **Super Typhoon Yutu ravages US territories in the Pacific**

The Weather Channel <a href="https://weather.com/storms/typhoon/news/2018-10-24-super-typhoon-yutu-mariana-islands-guam-western-pacific" target="_blank">reports</a> that Super Typhoon Yutu is striking parts of the Northern Mariana Islands in the Western Pacific Ocean and has become the strongest typhoon of record to pass near the U.S. territories of Saipan and Tinian. The massive storm is also affecting Guam. Read more about the impact of Yutu <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/energy-environment/2018/10/24/extreme-category-typhoon-yutu-makes-devastating-landfall-northern-mariana-islands-us-commonwealth/?noredirect=on&utm_term=.ab6c3c21e82e" target="_blank">here</a>.
