---
layout: post
title:  "Let It Snow"
excerpt: "Climate change is changing the future of winter sports."
date:   2018-02-09 18:00:00 -0500
categories: [Environment]
---

### Climate change poses threat to winter sports

As the Winter Olympics formally opened today, a <a href="http://www.impactlab.org/news-insights/americas-shrinking-ski-season/?utm_source=newsletter&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=&stream=top-stories" target="_blank">new report</a> warned that climate change is threatening the future of winter sports. The Climate Impact Lab said that by the end of the century, the number of days when the temperature is below 32F or 0C each year would decline, regardless of the state of global carbon emissions.

#### ELI5

The lower the number of days of freezing or below freezing temperatures, the lower the chances of ski resorts being able to hold on to snowfall or even create artificial snow. Artificial snow requires temperatures of below 28F and requires more energy to produce. The Climate Impact Lab analyzed temperatures in 11 ski towns in the US and noted that Truckee, California could experience a 75-84% decline in the number of freezing or below-freezing days, the highest percentage of decline among the 11 sites. Three sites, Stowe, Vermont, Taos, New Mexico and Breckendridge, Colorado could experience the lowest decline of between 25 and 34%. We might experience a polar vortex every now and then, but scientists say these cold snaps are also <a href="https://insideclimatenews.org/news/02022018/cold-weather-polar-vortex-jet-stream-explained-global-warming-arctic-ice-climate-change" target="_blank">caused by global warming</a>. 

#### Why does this matter?

Because, Winter Olympics. The Olympics will not go away soon but it's going to be more expensive to hold them.
