---
layout: post
title: "Pulling Out"
excerpt: "Airbnb exits the West Bank. The man who lied about his paychecks."
categories: [CSR, Human Rights, Ethics]
---

### Airbnb removes rental listings in the Occupied Territories

Airbnb <a href="https://press.airbnb.com/listings-in-disputed-regions/" target="_blank">announced</a> it is removing all rental listings in the Occupied Territories, drawing criticism from the Israeli government, but was welcomed by human rights advocates. The company said the decision will affect around 200 listings.

#### What led to the decision?

The company said it consulted numerous experts and considered the potential safety risks for its hosts and guests, evaluate whether the listings are contributing to existing human suffering, and determine whether doing business in the area has a direct connection to the broader dispute in the Middle East. Airbnb's conclusion was that it should remove the listings.

#### Who's happy?

Human rights activists are. Human Rights Watch said the decision was "an important recognition that such listings can't square with its human rights responsibilities." A senior Palestinian negotiator, Saeb Erekat, described Airbnb’s decision as an “initial positive step”.

#### Who's not?

Israeli government officials. Tourism Minister Yariv Levin said the move was "discriminatory". A Jewish organization in Los Angeles <a href="https://www.stuff.co.nz/business/world/108749214/airbnb-pulls-out-of-israels-west-bank-prompting-calls-for-a-boycott" target="_blank">called for a boycott</a> of the company.

#### Why does this matter?

Airbnb's dilemma actually reflects the predicament of so many companies operating in the region. On the one hand, operating in the Occupied Territories in general help the local economy although most the volume and value of business operations there are minimal. But on the other hand, doing business in a disputed area is widely perceived to be supporting what is considered by many parties as an illegal occupation. Foreign companies have the advantage over their Israeli counterparts in the sense that they are not obliged by Israeli law to do business in the Occupied Territories and can pull out of the area, as Airbnb did. Israeli companies, however, are mandated by the government to provide goods and services in these settlements. Status: Complicated for a prrretty long time.

* * *
<br />

**LIAR, LIAR**

#### **Nissan's chairman arrested for "significant" financial misconduct**

Nissan Chairman Carlos Ghosn and one other Nissan board member have been <a href="https://newsroom.nissan-global.com/releases/release-860852d7040eed420ffbaebb223b6973-181119-01-e" target="_blank">arrested for under-reporting his income</a> for many years, and for misusing the company's assets. Ghosn is an auto industry biggie, and also heads Mitsubishi Motors and Renault. The arrest was apparently a shocker but unlikely to change the market power of the Nissan-Mitsubishi-Renault triumverate.
