---
layout: post
title: "Tech vs Trump"
excerpt: "Allegations of liberal bias against big tech escalate. And we're reading something about Lego."
categories: [Human Rights, Environment, CSR]
---

### Social media companies facing inquiries by US Congress, Justice Department

Allegations of bias by social media companies have just taken a turn for the worse. In addition to the hours of grilling by the House of Representatives, Twitter, Google and Facebook also face an investigation by the Justice Department.

#### A Day in the House

Republicans in the House of Representatives questioned Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey over alleged bias against conservatives. Dorsey <a href="https://docs.house.gov/meetings/IF/IF00/20180905/108642/HHRG-115-IF00-Wstate-DorseyJ-20180905.pdf" target="_blank">admitted</a> that Twitter had "unfairly" filtered 600,000 accounts from its search auto-suggestions, although this was due to faulty algorithms and was not intentional. Most accounts affected were not political and the issues was "resolved" within 24 hours.

COO Sheryl Sandberg represented Facebook but Google said, nah, we're not playing this game. Members of the House were not pleased. Sandberg and Dorsey are also expected to face questions about their companies' efforts to weed out trolls and fake accounts, as well as stop online harassment and bullying.

#### Justice wants in

Attorney General Jeff Sessions <a href="https://www.politico.com/story/2018/09/05/sessions-social-media-bias-complaints-770449" target="_blank">announced</a> that he will convene a meeting with state attorneys later this month to discuss concerns "that social media companies may be hurting competition and intentionally stifling the free exchange of ideas on their platforms.” The planned meeting is reportedly scheduled for September 25. Sessions' announcement came a few days after President Trump accused Google of manipulating search results against him.

#### Why do these matter?

For tech companies, these hearings signal increased political and regulatory risks. Trump is actively out to get them and whether or not there are grounds for him to do so is not really the issue. What matters here is the Trump has the ability to make life a big public relations nightmare for social media companies.

More importantly, we think these investigations are the first steps leading to some form of increased regulation for social media. The impact of social media on political life and institutions has made regulation inevitable and its only a matter of time before the federal government steps in. State governments, like <a href="https://www.nbcnews.com/tech/tech-news/california-passes-digital-privacy-bill-could-have-impact-across-u-n887591" target="_blank">California</a>, are already at it anyway, so federal regulation shouldn't come as a surprise.

* * *
<br />

**WE'RE READING...**

#### **Lego is reinventing plastic**

Lego wants to reduce its reliance on petroleum-based plastics and is trying to build toys from plant-based or recycled sources. And it has set some tough targets: keep all of its packaging out of landfills by 2025 and use plant-based or recycled sources for its toys by 2030. More from <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/31/business/energy-environment/lego-plastic-denmark-environment-toys.html" target="_blank">the New York Times</a>.
