---
layout: post
title:  "Battle Royale"
excerpt: "Companies cutting ties with NRA face backlash from conservative politicians. Major earthquake hits oil and mineral rich Papua New Guinea."
date:   2018-02-26 20:00:00 -0500
categories: [Environment, Human Rights]
---

### Georgia's conservative legislators go after Delta's tax deal

Georgia's conservative state legislators have threatened to block a sales tax exemption measure for Delta Airlines if it does not reinstate its discount program with the National Rifle Association.

Republican Lt. Gov. Casey Cagle, president of the state Senate, <a href="https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/2018/02/26/georgia-senate-stalls-delta-tax-break-dispute-over-discounted-fare-agreement-nra/374215002/" target="_blank">tweeted</a>: “I will kill any tax legislation that benefits @Delta unless the company changes its position and fully reinstates its relationship with @NRA. Corporations cannot attack conservatives and expect us not to fight back.”

State Senator Rick Jeffares similarly tweeted: "I stand with the NRA & support our 2nd Amendment rights. Delta Airlines is now seeking $40 MILLION TAX BREAK from the GA Legislature. I'm leading the charge to let Delta know their attack on the NRA and our 2nd Amendment is unacceptable."

#### Say again?

Cagle and Jeffares are talking about a sales tax exemption on jet fuel, which could provide up to $50 million benefit to Delta. The tax break was approved by Georgia's House of Representatives and had moved to the state Senate when Delta, along with at least nine other companies, terminated its discount program with the NRA. Companies terminated relationships with the NRA due to customer pressure following the Parkland, Florida school shooting on February 14th.

#### A looming battle

This event shifts the dynamics of the escalating gun debate. Last week, the momentum was for the companies that decided to cut ties with the NRA. By ending contracts with the NRA, they prevented their own customer boycotts and got a lot of love from the internet. But today, the momentum swung back to the NRA. Tax breaks are a big deal for companies and removing or blocking them would hurt. Delta would have lobbied hard for that tax break, only to face defeat in the hands of conservative legislators over a discount program. Delta continues to have an ace, it is one of Georgia's largest employers and it can also threaten to pull out of Georgia if it fails to get its tax break. Delta has not blinked yet, but Georgia has just provided other conservative politicians the blueprint on how to deliver a stinging counterpunch to woke  companies.

#### Why does this matter?

Because we all have a stake in the gun debate. Companies cutting ties with the NRA delivered a strong message on the need for gun control. But if companies are faced with retaliation from conservative politicians, then gun control advocates are likely to lose a powerful ally in business, and the status quo prevails. Que sera sera.

* * *
<br />

### Magnitude 7.5 earthquake hits resource rich Pacific nation  

A <a href="https://www.reuters.com/article/us-papua-quake/major-quake-cuts-communications-halts-oil-and-gas-operations-in-papua-new-guinea-idUSKCN1G90UR" target="_blank">magnitude 7.5 earthquake</a> hit Papua New Guinea (PNG) on Sunday, disabling power and communications, and forcing a halt in operations of oil and gas, and mining companies in the Pacific country. The earthquake hit Southern Highlands, approximately 350 miles northwest of Port Moresby, the capital. Media reports say the damage in the area appears severe.

#### Who are affected?

PNG is rich with oil and minerals, and hosts a number of Western energy and mining corporations such as Exxon Mobil, Freeport McMoRan and Barrick Gold, among others. Exxon Mobil said it closed its Hides gas conditioning plant, and it believes that some infrastructure like living quarters, administration buildings and a mess hall had been damaged. It's private flights from a nearby airfield have also been suspended, although it is working to evacuate non-essential personnel from the area.

On Monday, a <a href="https://www.reuters.com/article/us-papua-quake/miners-report-some-infrastructure-damage-after-papua-quake-idUSKCN1GB015" target="_blank">Reuters report</a> quoted Barrick Gold as saying that a power station that supplies its Porgera gold mine had been damaged, while Ok Tedi Mining reported that a landslip had blocked a road and damaged pipelines to its copper and gold mine in the Star Mountains.

#### Why does this matter?

Major earthquakes have the potential to damage infrastructure of extractive companies, which may lead to oil spills or mine leaks, which can exacerbate the effects of the disaster.
