---
layout: post
title: "Diversité"
excerpt: "Facebook hit for 'intolerant' liberal culture. ICYMI Exxon Mobil subsidiary to cut emissions."
categories: [Diversity]
---

### Internal memo by FB employee pushes for diversity in political ideology

An internal memo by a Facebook employee criticized the social media company for an "intolerant liberal culture". The <a href="https://int.nyt.com/data/documenthelper/201-facebook-political-diversity/a8dfe9ae492061f54455/optimized/full.pdf#page=1" target="_blank">memo written by engineer Brian Amerige</a> and published by the New York Times, alleged that the culture of intolerance has gotten worse in the last two years, coinciding with the election of President Trump.

#### Too liberal?

Amerige alleged that the company and its employees are "quick to attack - often in mobs — anyone who presents a view that appears to be in opposition to left-leaning ideology.” Employees with different views are afraid to speak up for fear of being attacked by colleagues. Approximately 100 supporters of the memo have joined the FB'ers for Political Diversity, an online group formed to help "make Facebook a company that's more tolerant and active-minded about different political and ideological perspectives."

#### Culture wars

Silicon Valley is known to be politically left-leaning, although in the last two years, there have been pockets of dissent that have captured media attention. In July 2017, an engineer at Google, James Damore, published a memo criticizing Google's left-leaning bias. But the <a href= "https://assets.documentcloud.org/documents/3914586/Googles-Ideological-Echo-Chamber.pdf" target="_blank">memo</a> was controversial for noting "biological differences" between men and women", suggesting that women's traits explain why there are fewer of them in tech. Damore was <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/08/technology/google-engineer-fired-gender-memo.html" target="_blank">fired</a> from the company shortly thereafter for "advancing harmful gender stereotypes".

#### Why does this matter?

While these critics still represent a minority in the tech industry, they point to emerging challenges that could hit companies in the coming years. Gender diversity took awhile to make its way to the corporate boardroom but it is now firmly entrenched in corporate agendas. Other forms of diversity such as political ideology and race are beginning to take shape. Better get ready, Corporate America.

* * *
<br />

**ICYMI**

#### **Exxon Mobil's Canadian subsidiary sets emissions reduction target**

Imperial Oil Ltd., which is 69% owned by Exxon Mobil, said it aims to <a href="https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/calgary/imperial-oil-cut-greenhouse-gas-emmisions-1.4802498" target="_blank">cut emissions</a> from its oil sands operations in Canada by 10% in five years. CEO Rich Kruger said the company will use technology to achieve this goal. This is a BFD because Exxon Mobil has been resistant to climate action calls for ages. We're finally seeing some real progress here.
