---
layout: post
title:  "Wynning it"
excerpt: "Wynn Resorts CEO steps down following sexual harassment allegations."
date:   2018-02-07 18:00:00 -0500
categories: [Diversity, CSR]
---

### Steve Wynn resigns as CEO and Chair

Following reports that he had sexually harassed women employees for decades, Steve Wynn today resigned as chairman and CEO of Wynn Resorts. Wynn resigned late February 6 but denied the allegations. In a <a href="http://money.cnn.com/2018/02/06/news/companies/steve-wynn-stepping-down-ceo-wynn-resorts/index.html " target="_blank">statement</a>, he said he has “found myself the focus of an avalanche of negative publicity” and that he has concluded that he “cannot continue to be effective” in his current roles. On February 7, a Massachusetts pension fund <a href="https://www.cnbc.com/2018/02/07/wynn-resorts-board-former-ceo-steve-wynn-hit-with-shareholder-lawsuit.html" target="_blank">filed a shareholder lawsuit</a> against Wynn and Wynn Resorts for breach of fiduciary duties “by engaging in a pattern of intentional egregious misconduct.”

#### Rewind, replay

Last week, the Wall Street Journal reported that Wynn had sexually harassed female workers for decades. The allegations have spooked investors; the company’s share price has lost nearly 10% in value since the story broke out. Wynn earlier resigned as finance head of the Republican National Committee.

#### Why does this matter?

Because, #TimesUp. Sexual misconduct allegations continue to share the governance of major companies. The movement has toppled the reign of one of the most iconic hoteliers, but is threatening to destabilize one of the most recognizable brands in the industry as well. Wynn is synonymous to the company itself and some analysts believe that his resignation puts Wynn Resorts at a disadvantage in the market. But staying on would also be equally disruptive. Not only is Wynn Resorts facing a shareholder lawsuit, it also faces investigations by Nevada and Massachusetts state authorities. Even Macau, the gambling hub of Asia, has also indicated it is looking into the allegations.  

#### Our take

What matters at this time is how the company reacts. Will it investigate the allegations against its former chair and CEO? Wynn remains a major shareholder of Wynn Resorts, owning up to 12% of the company stock. He will continue to have voting rights and will remain a big influence in the company. Will the company implement new policies and procedures to make sure that these allegations do not happen again? If Wynn Resorts is to survive this scandal, it needs to demonstrate good faith cultural reforms.
