---
layout: post
title: "Explosion"
excerpt: "Gas pipeline explodes in Pennsylvania. Our quote of the day is from the new Miss America."
categories: [Environment, Diversity]
---

### Residents evacuated in gas pipeline explosion

A gas pipeline under construction in Pennsylvania <a href="https://abcnews.go.com/US/wireStory/gas-explosion-rocks-western-pennsylvania-community-57721654" target="_target">exploded</a> on September 10, damaging a few vehicles and two garages. The incident also prompted preemptive evacuation of up to 30 homes. The blast occurred at around 5 am in Center Township in Beaver County in the western part of the state. Company officials said "earth movement" might have triggered the explosion, but noted that the fire was contained by 7 am.

#### More background please

The Mariner East 2 pipeline is owned by Sunoco Partners, a subsidiary of Energy Transfer Corp. Energy Transfer is the same company that owns the controversial Dakota Access Pipeline that has been opposed by Native Americans and environmental advocates. The 306-mile Mariner East 2 is projected to carry 275,000 barrels a day of butane, propane and other liquid gases from Ohio and West Virginia and then to the Atlantic Coast for export. A non-profit environmental group said Energy Transfer has <a href="https://waterkeeper.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/Oil-and-Water_Waterkeeper-Report.pdf" target="_blank">a history of spills</a> from its existing pipelines. Energy Transfer owns approximately 85,000 miles of pipelines across the US.

#### What now?

Sunoco is facing calls by residents and other third parties to halt construction of the pipeline. Rep. Chris Quinn of the neighboring 168th District of Delaware said that if this incident occurred in his area, it would far have more <a href="http://www.pahousegopnews.com/Broadcast/ViewBroadcast.ashx?ID=23770" target="_blank">serious consequences</a> because the pipeline corrider in Delaware is more densely populated. He called for immediate suspension of the construction. TBD if Pennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf will heed the call.

#### Why does this matter?

Industrial accidents like these not only release more carbon to the atmosphere, they are a stark reminder of the potential health and safety hazards faced by residents living near these pipelines. One of the biggest pipeline explosions in the country occurred in San Bruno, California in 2010 killed eight people and caused significant damage to the community.

* * *
<br />

**QUOTE OF THE DAY**

<b><i>I'm a part of history. Miss America started off as a swimsuit competition, but I think it's important that we're evolving and I'm so excited to be a part of the new era.</i>

~ Nia Franklin who was crowned Miss America 2019. Hers is the first batch of Miss America contestants who did not have to wear a swimsuit during the pageant as part of the redesign of Miss America.
