---
layout: post
title: "To the Right, To the Right"
excerpt: "Brazil has a new president and what his election means. ICYMI: The United Kingdom's budget was meh for the environment."
categories: [Environment, Diversity]
---

### Brazil's votes for right-wing Jair Bolsonaro  

Brazil has a new president, a right-wing former army captain, who's had some pretty offensive statements during this campaign, but 55% of voters went for him anyway.

#### What's he been saying?

He supports dictatorship, gun rights, and torture. He's not a believer of LGBTQ rights, says he would rather have a dead son rather than a homosexual one. He's not a fan of equal compensation between men and women either and once told a legislator she was too ugly to be raped. And mixed race marriages don't happen in his world. Offensive, right? More of his famous words <a href="https://theintercept.com/2018/10/28/jair-bolsonaro-elected-president-brazil/" target="_blank">here</a>.

#### But why do people love him?

Voters reacted to the wave of corruption scandals that have swept Brazil and led the country to a deep recession. Corporate Brazil loves Bolsonaro for his promise to privatize state-run companies and deregulate industry.

#### Why does this matter?

Because Bolsonaro will not be good for diversity and equal rights. In a country with severe social inequality, his politics take Brazil two steps back.

* * *
<br />

**ICYMI**

#### **What about the climate?**

The United Kingdom released its budget for 2018 and while the government is prepared to spend more for health and infrastructure, it apparently did not want to spend much for climate change mitigation. It is spending an extra GBP 1 billion for its armed forces, but spending a grand total of GBP 70 million for the environment. Cheapskate. More <a href="https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-politics-46017125" target="_blank">here</a>.
