---
layout: post
title:  "Bait and Hook?"
excerpt: "Walmart increases wages, then closes stores."
date:   2018-01-11 18:00:00 -0500
categories: [CSR, Labor]
---

### Walmart raises wages

Retail giant Walmart is the latest to give thanks to corporate tax cuts by announcing bonuses for its employees and an increase in the entry hourly wage, among other benefits. Walmart <a href="https://news.walmart.com/2018/01/11/walmart-to-raise-us-wages-provide-one-time-bonus-and-expand-hourly-maternity-and-parental-leave" target="_blank">announced today a number of benefits</a> such as a one-time cash bonus of up to $1,000 to employees (depending on seniority), an increase in the entry hourly salary to $11, an expansion of maternal and paternal leave benefits, and child adoption assistance. The company implied that these benefits were in part due to the reduction in the corporate tax rate from 35% to 20% under the Tax Cut and Jobs Act signed into law by President Trump in December last year. The one-time bonus and the salary increase will cost the company approximately $700 million.

#### And then...

On the same day, it <a href="http://www.businessinsider.com/walmart-suddenly-closes-sams-club-stores-2018-1" target="_blank">closed at least 63 Sam's Club stores</a> as part of an ongoing cost-cutting plan. Employees found out about the closures the hard way: they were locked out of the stores when they reported for work this morning. The closures could affect up to 11,000 employees.

#### Why does this matter?

Walmart's is America's largest private employer with more than 1.2 million associates across the country. This means that a significant number of lives are directly and indirectly touched by its policies and actions. Walmart's size and influence in the market also sets the standards for the retail industry. Until recent years, its relations with its employees have been acrimonious. The company has been trying to make amends by announcing a $2.7 billion plan to improve wages and benefits, and is actually <a href="https://news.walmart.com/news-archive/2016/01/20/more-than-one-million-walmart-associates-receive-pay-increase-in-2016" target="_blank">making good</a> on its promises. The additional benefits announced this year are consistent with its long-term plan but they lose their appeal when they are paired with store closures that will lead to unemployment.

#### Our take

We love that Walmart, like AT&T, Comcast and Wells Fargo, is giving employees a share of the tax cut pie. But the world's largest retail chain posted total revenues of $485.9 billion in 2016. Did it really have to wait for the tax cuts to spend 0.14% of these revenues for its employees?
