---
layout: post
title:  "The Great Divide"
excerpt: "Democrats believe that climate change is real, Republicans not quite."
categories: [Environment]
---

### Climate change remains a partisan issue in the US

A new <a href="http://news.gallup.com/poll/231530/global-warming-concern-steady-despite-partisan-shifts.aspx?utm_source=WTF+Just+Happened+Today%3F&utm_campaign=dd05cbaf46-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_1_19_2018&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_9813b73b1a-dd05cbaf46-166133257" target="_blank">poll by independent pollster, Gallup</a> show that Americans are becoming more polarized over climate change. Republicans tend to believe that the threat of climate change is "exaggerated" while Democrats tend to worry more about it. Independent voters tend to lead toward the Republican line of thinking. Gallup said President Trump "may have contributed" to this divide by calling climate change a "hoax" and reversing US government policy positions on the environment. The survey was conducted from March 1 to 8, 2018.

#### Hit me with the highlights

In general, fewer Republicans and Independent voters believe in the threat of climate change this year compared to last year. The survey results showed a declining trend among Republican and Independent respondents who believe that climate change is happening and that it is caused by human activity. In contrast, more Democrats worry about it, think its occurring and that it poses a threat in their lifetimes.

For example, approximately 69% of Republicans think climate change is exaggerated, an increase from 66% in 2017. Approximately 34% of Independents also think so, compared to 32% last year. Just 4% of Democrats are with them, down from 10% in 2017.

Approximately 34% of Republicans believe that climate change is already occurring, down from 53% last year. 60% of Independents think the same, also down from 67% last year. However, more Democrats (an increase of 82% from 73% last year) believe climate change is happening.

Approximately 91% of Democrats worry about climate change, compared to just 33% of Republicans and 62% of Independents. But in the latter two groups, the numbers also declined from last year, which means fewer Republics and Independents worry about it.

#### Is there any good news around here?

Well, the silver lining is majority of Americans do believe that #climatechangeisreal. The number of respondents who believe that climate change pose a threat in their lifetimes hit an all time high of 45% this year, while 48% of Americans are still concerned over climate change.

#### Our take

The great divide shows how effective climate denials are among certain groups of voters. It also means it becomes even easier for the Trump government to reverse climate action policies because public opinion in its voter base is generally skeptical of climate change anyway. When it comes to climate change, America takes one step forward, but take two steps back.
