---
layout: post
title: "Rounded Up"
excerpt: "Jury finds Monsanto liable for cancer. ICYMI: Opioid addiction among pregnant women in the US is soaring."
categories: [Health]
---

### Jury orders Monsanto to pay nearly $300 million in damages

A jury <a href="https://www.reuters.com/article/us-monsanto-cancer-lawsuit/monsanto-ordered-to-pay-289-million-in-worlds-first-roundup-cancer-trial-idUSKBN1KV2HB" target="_blank">ordered</a> Monsanto, the world's largest manufacturer of pesticides, to pay a terminally-ill man $289 million in damages for failing to warn him of the cancer risks of its widely used Roundup and RangerPro pesticide brands. The jury reached a verdict that Roundup causes cancer, ending a landmark eight-week trial tried in a court in San Fransisco, California.

#### Throwback 2014

Dewayne Johnson, 46, filed the case after he was <a href="https://www.theguardian.com/business/2018/aug/10/monsanto-trial-cancer-dewayne-johnson-ruling" target="_blank">diagnosed</a> with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in 2014. He regularly used the RangerPro pesticide while working as a groundskeeper in a school in California. Monsanto is facing roughly 5,000 similar lawsuits across the US.

#### What's up with Roundup?

Pesticides produced by Monsanto use glyphosate. Some studies have found the chemical safe but others say otherwise. In 2015, the World Health Organization’s international agency for research on cancer classified glyphosate as “probably carcinogenic to humans”. In 2017, the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), meanwhile, said its A-ok.

#### Why does this matter?

The verdict could affect the 5,000 other cases facing the company as well as Monsanto's market share. Two days ago, a federal judge in Brazil ordered a ban on the glyophosate for 30 days pending a government review. A number of countries have already restricted its use. Glyphosate is not going away anytime soon but the barriers to continued use sure are getting higher.

* * *
<br />

**ICYMI**

#### **More pregnant women in the US are addicted to opioids**

The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) <a href="https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/67/wr/mm6731a1.htm?s_cid=mm6731a1_w" target="_blank">reported</a> that the number of pregnant women addicted to opioids more than quadrupled from 1999 to 2014. Maine, New Mexico, Vermont, and West Virginia had the largest increase, while California had the lowest increase. Opioid use during pregnancy may lead to preterm labor, stillbirth, neonatal abstinence syndrome (we had to Google it too), and death during childbirth. If this is not crisis proportions, we don't know what is.
