---
layout: post
title: "The World Runs on Oil"
excerpt: "Oil prices slip on fears over trade wars and what this means for the climate. Our quote of the day is from the US Ambassador to the United Nations."
categories: [Environment, Human Rights]
---

### Oil prices go down and this may be good for the climate

Crude oil prices <a href="https://oilprice.com/Energy/Oil-Prices/Tariff-Threats-And-OPEC-Rhetoric-Push-Oil-Prices-Down.html" target="_blank">dropped on June 18</a> over fears of reduced demand as the US and China trade tariff warnings. Brent crude traded at US$75.04 a barrel, down 0.40 percent, with WTI down 1.25 percent to US$64.87 a barrel. While the prices eventually recovered, the drop is considered by the oil industry as significant.

#### Are the tariffs largely to blame?

To an extent yes. The drop in prices followed an announcement by President Trump that the US is considering tariffs on another $200 million of Chinese goods. China thinks the US threats are waaaaaay over the top and has threatened retaliation. A trade war is likely to reduce demand and introduce market uncertainty, which the oil industry does not like. But <a href="https://www.platts.com/latest-news/oil/singapore/crude-oil-futures-trade-lower-as-markets-digest-27998925" target="_blank">Goldman Sachs also says</a> that the price fluctuation reflects increased pressure on oil prices over the last three weeks as demand from emerging markets continued to drop and inventories are rising.

#### Aren't low oil prices good for our pockets?

Yep, and typically good for the climate too. Low prices discourage more investments in oil exploration and extraction because there is no point in investing in something that won't make much money right? This frees up capital for other projects such as renewable energy. Global investment in renewables has continued to grow in the last eight years, according the United Nations, with investments topping $2.9 trillion since 2004. Even the king of oil, Saudi Arabia, <a href="https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-01-16/saudi-arabia-plans-up-to-7-billion-of-renewables-this-year" target="_blank">plans</a> to increase investment in renewables. And we have reached a moment where fossil fuel production and use need to be scaled down if we are to manage the risk of climate change by meeting the <a href="https://ec.europa.eu/clima/policies/international/negotiations/paris_en" target="_blank">commitments made in Paris</a> in 2015.

#### Our take

We don't want to get ahead of ourselves tho. Let's wait and see where the markets take us. We will not see a world without fossil fuels in our lifetime, and this scenario is not realistic at this time anyway. But the next best thing is to strike a healthy balance between fossil fuels and renewable energies.

* * *
<br />

**BEFORE YOU GO...**

#### **Quote of the day: HRCexit**

<i>For too long, the Human Rights Council has been a protector of human rights abusers, and a cesspool of political bias.</i> ~ Nikki Haley, the US Ambassador to the United Nations. As expected, the US <a href="https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2018-06-19/trump-is-said-ready-to-pull-u-s-from-un-s-human-rights-council" target="_blank">formally withdrew</a> from the 47-member Human Rights Council on June 19, claiming that the Council was rabidly anti-Israel. The US became a member of the Council in 2009 under President Obama.
