---
layout: post
title:  "Retaliation "
excerpt: "Gun industry retaliates against anti-gun efforts."
categories: [Human Rights]
---

### The gun empire strikes back

Gun makers and the National Rifle Association (NRA) have pushed back against the gun critics. Several gun manufacturers <a href="https://www.racked.com/2018/5/10/17339690/dicks-sporting-goods-gun-control-debate" target="_blank">severed ties </a>with Dick's Sporting Goods following the retailer's decision to stop selling assault rifles and increasing the minimum gun-purchasing age to 21. Meanwhile, the NRA has <a href="https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-guns-nra-new-york/nra-sues-new-york-governor-regulator-for-blacklisting-campaign-idUSKBN1IC2AK" target="_blank">sued</a> New York Governor Andrew Cuomo and the New York State Department of Financial Services (NYDFS) for allegedly engaging in a "blacklisting campaign".

#### The dig on Dick's

Three gun manufacturers - O.F. Mossberg & Sons Inc., MKS Supply and Springfield Armory - stopped working with Dick's Sporting Goods following revelations last week that the company hired three lobbyists to lobby for more gun control in Congress. This followed the retailer's decision to stop selling assault-style rifles and raising the minimum gun-purchasing age after the Parkland, Florida school shooting in February. The National Shooting Sport Foundation, the largest gun trade association in the US, also announced that it would revoke the retailer's membership for “conduct detrimental to the best interests of the Foundation".

#### The NRA vs New York

The NRA is accusing New York state of running a “blacklisting campaign” to sway banks and insurers to stop doing business with the group. In a lawsuit, the NRA said the state aimed to deprive the NRA of its right to “speak freely about gun-related issues and defend the Second Amendment”. The NRA was reacting to the NYDFS' fine on an insurance broker for administering an NRA-branded insurance program, as well as a penalty on another insurer for "unlawfully providing liability insurance to gun owners for acts of intentional wrongdoing".

#### Why does this matter?

This shows that the gun debate is not ending soon and companies as well as states that have taken a stronger stance for gun control face tough challenges ahead. The NRA and the gun industry have a lot of money and they are not going down without a fight. Will the activist corporations stay on course?
