---
layout: post
title:  "A New Year"
excerpt: "What to look out for in 2019."
categories: [Environment, Ethics, CSR, Privacy]
---

### What's in store for 2019?
It's the time of the year to look to the future, to hope for the best but prepare for the worst. Here's the list.

#### Countdown to 2020
No, not the Tokyo Olympics, but the Paris Agreement. In 2015, countries committed to keep the increase in global average temperature to below 2°C above pre-industrials levels by 2020. As of November 2018, <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/energy-environment/2018/11/27/countries-vowed-cut-carbon-emissions-they-arent-even-close-their-goals-un-report-finds/?noredirect=on&utm_term=.a71e1261759a" target="_blank">countries are not even close to this goal</a>. So this year is crucial. Will countries beat expectations and deliver? Or will they fumble and mess things up? 

#### More environmental regs on the chopping block
To add salt to an open wound, the Trump administration is expected to roll back more environmental regulations in the name of energy independence. Opening up the Arctic to oil and gas drilling is in the books. Activists are gearing up for a fight. And we should be too.

#### Our digital future
2018 was a pivotal year for technology and, inevitably, our digital lives. We found out our digital lives were not as private as we thought they were. We felt violated. So 2019 will be a defining year for technology and whatever happens, whether there will be new regulations or more investigations, our digital futures are in for a change.

#### Diversity matters
In 2018, we saw #MeToo bearing fruit. We saw more allegations of discrimination and sexual misconduct, but we also saw a new level of awareness of diversity and companies are adjusting to this new reality. It will be exciting to see what the new year brings to the movement.

#### Corporate activism on the rise
In 2018, corporate America made a stand against guns. A number of banks stopped lending to assault guns makers, while some large retailers said no mas to selling them. Citizens are loving the new, more responsible Corporate America. Will corporate activism continue in 2019? We certainly hope so.
