---
layout: post
title:  "Slave to Work"
excerpt: "Thousands protest new labor law in Hungary."
categories: [Labor]
---

### Hungarians protest against "slave law"

Thousands of Hungarians have taken to the streets to <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/05/world/europe/hungary-protests-slave-law.html" target="_blank">protest modifications in the country's labor law</a> that lengthen working hours without full or immediate overtime pay. The modifications, passed in December, have triggered continued protests in the capital, Budapest, and faces the risk of escalating into a full on general strike.

#### What's in the law?

The new law allows employers to ask for 60% more overtime annually. This means that workers may be required to work an extra two hours a day or up to one extra day per week, but are not entitled to full or immediate compensation for the additional hours worked. Employers can defer overtime compensation for up to three years. Hungarians are calling the legislation the "slave law" and it has been the target of sustained protests since December last year.

#### Take me back to 2010

The new law is the brainchild of Prime Minister Viktor Orban who has been accused of using authoritarian tactics to consolidate power since he took office in 2010. He rewrote the Constitution to give his party, Fidesz, greater power, his party took over state media, and forced the Central European University out of Hungary. The government said the labor law amendments are needed to support businesses who are struggling to cope with labor shortage. Hungary is experiencing a labor gap due to an aging population emigration of talent.

#### What is this important?

These protests mark the first sustained public opposition to Orban and raises political risk to his regime.  But on the flip side, the protests demonstrate that Hungarians are having none of Orban's tactics any longer. But it's too early to tell if this is the start of the end. A national strike is planned for January 19. Let's see how that turns out. 
